README.md, before:

# WebGL Helpers

Some scripts and debugger snippets that might come in handy.

## Show Info

Shows how many vertices, instances, and draw calls 
are happening per frame as well as the amount of data
being passed to WebGL via functions like `bufferSubData`
and `texSubImage2D`.

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/webgl-show-info.png" />

See Live Example [here](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/unity/index-webgl-show-info.html).

Clicking the info box will show per function counts for the functions being tracked.

To use, add this script before your other scripts

```html
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-show-info.js"></script>
```

It inserts a `<div>` in the `<body>` of the page and gives it a CSS class name of `webgl-show-info`
so you can position with with `.webgl-show-info { right: 0; bottom: 0; }` etc...

Some things to note:

Certain things are marked in `red`.

* updating `ELEMENT_ARRAY_BUFFER` buffers can cause perf issues because WebGL is required
  to make sure no indices are out of bounds. WebGL implementations usually cache this info
  but if you update the buffer they have to invalidate their cache for that buffer.

  Of course if you can't avoid updating indices then you'll have to live with whatever the
  perf hit is but if you can redesign so you don't need to update the indices you might find
  some perf gains.

* Calling any `getXXX` function every frame can cause perf issues. Common things are
  calling `gl.getUniformLocation` or `gl.getAttribLocation` every frame instead of just
  looking them up at init time. The same for example for `gl.checkFramebuffer`. Do it once
  at init time. If you need different arrangements of framebuffer attachments then make
  multiple framebuffers at init time.

* Setting up vertex attributes (calling `gl.vertexAttribPointer`, `gl.enableVertexAttribArray`, etc....
  If you want perf you should really be using vertex arrays (ie, `gl.createVertexArray`, `gl.bindVertexArray`).
  To be honest, every WebGL app I've ever written breaks this rule because WebGL1 didn't support
  vertex arrays without an extension.

Also, remember that **Premature Optimization is the root of all evil**. The majority of WebGL out there
just doesn't do enough work that these optimizations will matter. But, if you happen to be getting near
the limits then these are places you might look for perf gains.

Remember though, find the biggest perf issues first. If you have lots of overdraw, or slow complex shaders,
or a complex post processing pipeline doing a bunch of passes, or you're just drawing way to much stuff,
the thing above are probably not your bottleneck.

Here's a script you can paste into the JavaScript console to use on a running page

```js
(()=>{const s = document.createElement('script');s.src='https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-show-info.js';document.firstElementChild.appendChild(s)})();
```

## glEnumToString

A simple one, incomplete, but useful in a pinch.

```
function glEnumToString(value) {
  const keys = [];
  for (const key in WebGL2RenderingContext) {
    if (WebGL2RenderingContext[key] === value) {
      keys.push(key);
    }
  }
  return keys.length ? keys.join(' | ') : `0x${value.toString(16)}`;
}
```

The issue with it being incomplete it some enums are specified on extensions. 
One that covers all enums is a little too involved. Also, GL unfortunately
chose `0` for 4 different values. `NONE`, `POINTS`, `FALSE`, `NO_ERROR` which
is why the `join` above. Otherwise you'd need to know the function the value
is going to be used with in order to return the correct string.

## Show the available extensions

```
document.createElement("canvas").getContext("webgl").getSupportedExtensions().join('\n');
document.createElement("canvas").getContext("webgl2").getSupportedExtensions().join('\n');
```

## Print out *most* of the limits

```
{
    const gl = document.createElement('canvas').getContext('webgl2');
    const m = {};
    for (const key in gl) {
      if (key.startsWith("MAX_")) {
          m[key] = gl.getParameter(gl[key]);
      }
    }
    console.log(JSON.stringify(m, null, 2));
}
```

You could just go to [webglreport.com](https://webglreport.com) to see the limits but I needed to be able to compare.

```
a = <data from above on machine 1>
b = <data from above on machine 2>
console.log(Object.entries(a).map(([k, v]) => `${v.toString().padStart(10)} ${b[k].toString().padStart(10)} : ${k}`).join('\n'))
```

## Spy on draw calls

Copy and paste this into the JavaScript console

```
(()=>{const s = document.createElement('script');s.src='https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-show-draw-calls.js';document.firstElementChild.appendChild(s)})();
```

or copy and pasted [the entire file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greggman/webgl-helpers/master/webgl-show-draw-calls.js) into the JavaScript console.

Example, select the correct context, then copy and paste

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/log-draw-calls-jsconsole.gif" />

Or use 

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-show-draw-calls.js"></script>
```

# scripts to use when your including a 3rd party WebGL lib (Unity, three.js, etc...)

## webgl-log-shaders.js

Want to dump shaders, add this script at the top of your HTML file

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-log-shaders.js"></script>
```

For example [here's a Unity example with the script above added to the top of the HTML file](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/unity/index-log-shaders.html).

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/unity-log-shaders.png" />

And here's [the same with three.js](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/threejs/).

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/threejs-log-shaders.png" />

## webgl-dump-shaders.js

Same as above except you can possibly copy and paste this contents into the JS console.

```
(()=>{const s = document.createElement('script');s.src='https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-dump-shaders.js';document.firstElementChild.appendChild(s)})();
```

For example Google Maps

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/dump-shaders-google-maps.png" />

## webgl-disable2.js

Disables WebGL2. Useful to force something to use WebGL1 assuming it can handle both

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl2-disable.js"></script>
```

## webgl-force-preservedrawingbuffer.js

Forces `preserveDrawingBuffer: true`.

Maybe you want to take a screenshot of some canvas that another script is controlling.

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-preservedrawingbuffer.js"></script>
```

Example:

* [without script](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/2d-lines.html)
* [with script](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/2d-lines-force-preservedrawingbuffer.html)

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/preservedrawingbuffer.png" />

## webgl-force-alpha-true.js
## webgl-force-alpha-false.js

Forces `alpha: true` or `alpha: false`

Could be useful if you can't figure out how to get a certain library to
be one or the other. For example the myriad of poorly documented ways
that emscripten creates a canvas.

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-alpha-true.js"></script>
```

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-alpha-false.js"></script>
```

## webgl-force-premultipliedalpha-true.js
## webgl-force-premultipliedalpha-false.js

Forces `premultipliedAlpha: true` or `premultipliedAlpha: false`

Could be useful if you can't figure out how to get a certain library to
be one or the other. For example the myriad of poorly documented ways
that emscripten creates a canvas.

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-premultipliedalpha-true.js"></script>
```

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-premultipliedalpha-false.js"></script>
```

## webgl-force-powerpreference-low-power.js
## webgl-force-powerpreference-high-performance.js

Forces the powerPreference setting.

Could be useful if the library you're using has no way to set this
and you want it to be something other than the default.

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-powerpreference-low-power.js"></script>
```

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-powerpreference-high-performance.js"></script>
```

## webgl-gl-error-check.js

This script has moved to [https://github.com/greggman/webgl-lint](https://github.com/greggman/webgl-lint)

# Other useful things

* [virtual-webgl](https://github.com/greggman/virtual-webgl): A library to virtualize WebGL to surpass the context limit
* [webgl-capture](https://github.com/greggman/webgl-capture/): A library to capture GL calls into a reproducible webpage
* [twgl](https://twgljs.org): A library to simplify using WebGL

Commit message:

webgl-log-bad-shaders.js

README.md, after:

# WebGL Helpers

Some scripts and debugger snippets that might come in handy.

## Show Info

Shows how many vertices, instances, and draw calls 
are happening per frame as well as the amount of data
being passed to WebGL via functions like `bufferSubData`
and `texSubImage2D`.

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/webgl-show-info.png" />

See Live Example [here](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/unity/index-webgl-show-info.html).

Clicking the info box will show per function counts for the functions being tracked.

To use, add this script before your other scripts

```html
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-show-info.js"></script>
```

It inserts a `<div>` in the `<body>` of the page and gives it a CSS class name of `webgl-show-info`
so you can position with with `.webgl-show-info { right: 0; bottom: 0; }` etc...

Some things to note:

Certain things are marked in `red`.

* updating `ELEMENT_ARRAY_BUFFER` buffers can cause perf issues because WebGL is required
  to make sure no indices are out of bounds. WebGL implementations usually cache this info
  but if you update the buffer they have to invalidate their cache for that buffer.

  Of course if you can't avoid updating indices then you'll have to live with whatever the
  perf hit is but if you can redesign so you don't need to update the indices you might find
  some perf gains.

* Calling any `getXXX` function every frame can cause perf issues. Common things are
  calling `gl.getUniformLocation` or `gl.getAttribLocation` every frame instead of just
  looking them up at init time. The same for example for `gl.checkFramebuffer`. Do it once
  at init time. If you need different arrangements of framebuffer attachments then make
  multiple framebuffers at init time.

* Setting up vertex attributes (calling `gl.vertexAttribPointer`, `gl.enableVertexAttribArray`, etc....
  If you want perf you should really be using vertex arrays (ie, `gl.createVertexArray`, `gl.bindVertexArray`).
  To be honest, every WebGL app I've ever written breaks this rule because WebGL1 didn't support
  vertex arrays without an extension.

Also, remember that **Premature Optimization is the root of all evil**. The majority of WebGL out there
just doesn't do enough work that these optimizations will matter. But, if you happen to be getting near
the limits then these are places you might look for perf gains.

Remember though, find the biggest perf issues first. If you have lots of overdraw, or slow complex shaders,
or a complex post processing pipeline doing a bunch of passes, or you're just drawing way to much stuff,
the thing above are probably not your bottleneck.

Here's a script you can paste into the JavaScript console to use on a running page

```js
(()=>{const s = document.createElement('script');s.src='https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-show-info.js';document.firstElementChild.appendChild(s)})();
```

## glEnumToString

A simple one, incomplete, but useful in a pinch.

```
function glEnumToString(value) {
  const keys = [];
  for (const key in WebGL2RenderingContext) {
    if (WebGL2RenderingContext[key] === value) {
      keys.push(key);
    }
  }
  return keys.length ? keys.join(' | ') : `0x${value.toString(16)}`;
}
```

The issue with it being incomplete it some enums are specified on extensions. 
One that covers all enums is a little too involved. Also, GL unfortunately
chose `0` for 4 different values. `NONE`, `POINTS`, `FALSE`, `NO_ERROR` which
is why the `join` above. Otherwise you'd need to know the function the value
is going to be used with in order to return the correct string.

## Show the available extensions

```
document.createElement("canvas").getContext("webgl").getSupportedExtensions().join('\n');
document.createElement("canvas").getContext("webgl2").getSupportedExtensions().join('\n');
```

## Print out *most* of the limits

```
{
    const gl = document.createElement('canvas').getContext('webgl2');
    const m = {};
    for (const key in gl) {
      if (key.startsWith("MAX_")) {
          m[key] = gl.getParameter(gl[key]);
      }
    }
    console.log(JSON.stringify(m, null, 2));
}
```

You could just go to [webglreport.com](https://webglreport.com) to see the limits but I needed to be able to compare.

```
a = <data from above on machine 1>
b = <data from above on machine 2>
console.log(Object.entries(a).map(([k, v]) => `${v.toString().padStart(10)} ${b[k].toString().padStart(10)} : ${k}`).join('\n'))
```

## Spy on draw calls

Copy and paste this into the JavaScript console

```
(()=>{const s = document.createElement('script');s.src='https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-show-draw-calls.js';document.firstElementChild.appendChild(s)})();
```

or copy and pasted [the entire file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greggman/webgl-helpers/master/webgl-show-draw-calls.js) into the JavaScript console.

Example, select the correct context, then copy and paste

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/log-draw-calls-jsconsole.gif" />

Or use 

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-show-draw-calls.js"></script>
```

# scripts to use when your including a 3rd party WebGL lib (Unity, three.js, etc...)

## webgl-log-shaders.js

Want to dump shaders, add this script at the top of your HTML file

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-log-shaders.js"></script>
```

For example [here's a Unity example with the script above added to the top of the HTML file](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/unity/index-log-shaders.html).

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/unity-log-shaders.png" />

And here's [the same with three.js](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/threejs/).

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/threejs-log-shaders.png" />

## webgl-bad-log-shaders.js

Same as above but only logs a shader if it fails to compile. This can be useful
if you have a big project like a Unity project and you want to extract the
shader to file an [MCVE bug report](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minimal_reproducible_example).

Add this to the top of your HTML file

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-log-bad-shaders.js"></script>
```

If a shader fails to compile or a program fails to link it will print an error and their source code to the console.

## webgl-dump-shaders.js

Same as above except you can possibly copy and paste this contents into the JS console.

```
(()=>{const s = document.createElement('script');s.src='https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-dump-shaders.js';document.firstElementChild.appendChild(s)})();
```

For example Google Maps

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/dump-shaders-google-maps.png" />

## webgl-disable2.js

Disables WebGL2. Useful to force something to use WebGL1 assuming it can handle both

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl2-disable.js"></script>
```

## webgl-force-preservedrawingbuffer.js

Forces `preserveDrawingBuffer: true`.

Maybe you want to take a screenshot of some canvas that another script is controlling.

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-preservedrawingbuffer.js"></script>
```

Example:

* [without script](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/2d-lines.html)
* [with script](https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/examples/2d-lines-force-preservedrawingbuffer.html)

<img src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/images/preservedrawingbuffer.png" />

## webgl-force-alpha-true.js
## webgl-force-alpha-false.js

Forces `alpha: true` or `alpha: false`

Could be useful if you can't figure out how to get a certain library to
be one or the other. For example the myriad of poorly documented ways
that emscripten creates a canvas.

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-alpha-true.js"></script>
```

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-alpha-false.js"></script>
```

## webgl-force-premultipliedalpha-true.js
## webgl-force-premultipliedalpha-false.js

Forces `premultipliedAlpha: true` or `premultipliedAlpha: false`

Could be useful if you can't figure out how to get a certain library to
be one or the other. For example the myriad of poorly documented ways
that emscripten creates a canvas.

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-premultipliedalpha-true.js"></script>
```

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-force-premultipliedalpha-false.js"></script>
```

## webgl-force-powerpreference-low-power.js
## webgl-force-powerpreference-high-performance.js

Forces the powerPreference setting.

Could be useful if the library you're using has no way to set this
and you want it to be something other than the default.

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-powerpreference-low-power.js"></script>
```

```
<script src="https://greggman.github.io/webgl-helpers/webgl-powerpreference-high-performance.js"></script>
```

## webgl-gl-error-check.js

This script has moved to [https://github.com/greggman/webgl-lint](https://github.com/greggman/webgl-lint)

# Other useful things

* [virtual-webgl](https://github.com/greggman/virtual-webgl): A library to virtualize WebGL to surpass the context limit
* [webgl-capture](https://github.com/greggman/webgl-capture/): A library to capture GL calls into a reproducible webpage
* [twgl](https://twgljs.org): A library to simplify using WebGL
